Structurize, update and extend the documentation (#2188)
scylladb/scylla-operator: docs/source/resources/scyllaclusters/basics.md

You can always see the currently supported API fields (for a particular version installed in your cluster) by running
:::{code}
kubectl explain --api-version='scylla.scylladb.com/v1' ScyllaCluster.spec
:::
::::

Note that the Kubernetes clusters are only a regional concept, availability-wise they map into a ScyllaDB datacenter.
To deploy ScyllaDB cluster with multiple datacenter, you have to combine multiple Kubernetes clusters, each running a [ScyllaCluster](../../api-reference/groups/scylla.scylladb.com/scyllaclusters.rst). To learn more, please see [the dedicated multiDC guide](./multidc/multidc.md).

## Creating a ScyllaCluster

Before we go and create the ScyllaCluster, we'll first create our ScyllaDB config file that we'll reference later in the ScyllaCluster definition.

:::{code-block} bash
:linenos:
:emphasize-lines: 7

kubectl apply --server-side -f=<<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: scylladb-config
data:
  scylla.yaml: |
    authenticator: PasswordAuthenticator
    authorizer: CassandraAuthorizer
    # Other options
EOF
:::

:::{note}
Some of the ScyllaDB config is also generated by the {{productName}} based on your ScyllaCluster definitions.

> While you shall not define conflicting options here ({{productName}} config wins), we still want to give you a reasonable control to fine tune some ScyllaDB nobs.

Author: fixed

IOW. please stay away from touching networking, listen or published addresses and so on, but feel free to tune buffer sizes and such.
:::

Now we can create a simple ScyllaCluster to get ScyllaDB running.

:::{code-block} bash
:linenos:
:substitutions:

kubectl apply --server-side -f=<<EOF
apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1
kind: ScyllaCluster
metadata:
  name: scylladb
spec:
  repository: {{imageRepository}}
  version: {{imageTag}}
  agentVersion: {{agentVersion}}
  developerMode: false
  automaticOrphanedNodeCleanup: true
  sysctls:
  - fs.aio-max-nr=30000000
  datacenter:
    name: us-east-1
    racks:
    - name: us-east-1a
      members: 1
      scyllaConfig: scylladb-config
      storage:
        capacity: 100Gi
        storageClassName: scylladb-local-xfs
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 8Gi
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 8Gi
EOF
:::

> 

Author: added a note and the shared caution

# ScyllaClusters

## Introduction

[ScyllaCluster](../../api-reference/groups/scylla.scylladb.com/scyllaclusters.rst) defines a ScyllaDB datacenter and manages the racks within.
This section aims to make you familiar with how it looks like and how to perform some of the basic configuration or accessing the APIs.

> By no means this is a complete description of what it can do. Please consult our [generated API reference](../../api-reference/groups/scylla.scylladb.com/scyllaclusters.rst) for a complete list of options.

Reviewer: It's not, inversion is required after negative adverbial phrases when used at the beginning of a sentence; look up 'inversion after negative adverbial phrases'. `This is by no means [...]` would also work.

> By no means this is a complete description of what it can do. Please consult our [generated API reference](../../api-reference/groups/scylla.scylladb.com/scyllaclusters.rst) for a complete list of options.

Author: Looks like you are right, but I've google a surprisingly high number of hits of the reverse from native speakers.

> By no means this is a complete description of what it can do. Please consult our [generated API reference](../../api-reference/groups/scylla.scylladb.com/scyllaclusters.rst) for a complete list of options.

Author: changed

::::{tip}

> You can always see the currently supported API fields (for a particular version installed in your cluster) by running

Author: done

:::{code}
kubectl explain --api-version='scylla.scylladb.com/v1' ScyllaCluster.spec
:::
::::

Note that the Kubernetes clusters are only a regional concept, availability-wise they map into a ScyllaDB datacenter.

> To deploy ScyllaDB cluster with multiple datacenter, you have to combine multiple Kubernetes clusters, each running a [ScyllaCluster](../../api-reference/groups/scylla.scylladb.com/scyllaclusters.rst). To learn more, please see [the dedicated multiDC guide](./multidc/multidc.md).

Author: done

## Creating a ScyllaCluster

Before we go and create the ScyllaCluster, we'll first create our ScyllaDB config file that we'll reference later in the ScyllaCluster definition.

:::{code-block} bash
:linenos:
:emphasize-lines: 7

kubectl apply --server-side -f=<<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: scylladb-config
data:
  scylla.yaml: |
    authenticator: PasswordAuthenticator
    authorizer: CassandraAuthorizer
    # Other options
EOF
:::

:::{note}

> Some of the ScyllaDB config is also generated by the {{productName}} based on your ScyllaCluster definitions.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Part of the ScyllaDB config is also generated by the {{productName}} based on your ScyllaCluster definition.
```

Author: there are actually different config files later merged - so to me the "part of config"  doesn't fit that well

While you shall not define conflicting options here ({{productName}} config wins), we still want to give you a reasonable control to fine tune some ScyllaDB knobs.

> IOW. please stay away from touching networking, listen or published addresses and so on, but feel free to tune buffer sizes and such.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IOW, please refrain from touching networking, listen or published addresses and so on, but feel free to tune buffer sizes and such.
```
less aggressive imo

:::

Now we can create a simple ScyllaCluster to get ScyllaDB running.

:::{code-block} bash
:linenos:
:substitutions:

kubectl apply --server-side -f=<<EOF
apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1
kind: ScyllaCluster
metadata:
  name: scylladb
spec:
  repository: {{imageRepository}}
  version: {{imageTag}}
  agentVersion: {{agentVersion}}
  developerMode: false
  automaticOrphanedNodeCleanup: true
  sysctls:
  - fs.aio-max-nr=30000000
  datacenter:
    name: us-east-1
    racks:
    - name: us-east-1a
      members: 1
      scyllaConfig: scylladb-config
      storage:
        capacity: 100Gi
        storageClassName: scylladb-local-xfs
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 8Gi
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 8Gi
EOF
:::

:::{note}

> This values in this examples are only illustratory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values in these examples are only illustratory.
```

Author: fixed

You should always adjust the resources and storage capacity depending on your needs or the size and the type of your Kubernetes nodes.
:::

:::{include} ../../.internal/tuning-qos-caution.md
:::

(scyllacluster-enterprise)=
::::{note}
{{productName}} works with both ScyllaDB Open Source and ScyllaDB Enterprise.
You only have to adjust the [repository and tag fields](api-scylla.scylladb.com-scyllaclusters-v1-.spec) for each ScyllaCluster.

In addition to it, if you want to use tuning from the Enterprise repository, you have to adjust [**scyllaUtilsImage** on the global ScyllaOperatorConfig/cluster](../scyllaoperatorconfigs.md#tuning-with-scylladb-enterprise).

:::{code-block} bash
:linenos:
:substitutions:
:emphasize-lines: 6,7

apiVersion: scylla.scylladb.com/v1
kind: ScyllaCluster
metadata:
  name: scylladb
spec:
  repository: {{enterpriseImageRepository}}
  version: {{enterpriseImageTag}}
  # ...
EOF
:::

::::

## Forcing a rolling restart

> When you make a change to ScyllaDB config to an option that's not live reloaded by ScyllaDB, or want to trigger a rolling restart for a different reason, ScyllaCluster allow triggering the rolling restarts declaratively by changing `ScyllaCluster.spec.forceRedeploymentReason` to any other value. This will trigger a rolling restart of all ScyllaDB nodes in sequence, always respecting the [PodDistruptionsBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#pod-disruption-budgets) and keeping the cluster available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you change a ScyllaDB config option that's not live reloaded by ScyllaDB, or want to trigger a rolling restart for a different reason, ScyllaCluster allows triggering the rolling restarts declaratively by changing `ScyllaCluster.spec.forceRedeploymentReason` to any other value. This will trigger a rolling restart of all ScyllaDB nodes in sequence, always respecting the [PodDistruptionsBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#pod-disruption-budgets) and keeping the cluster available.
```

Author: done

## Next steps

> To follow up with other advanced topic, see [the section index for options](./index.md).

Reviewer: s/topic/topics

although I'd skip this section altogether, it's kind of obvious

Author: fixed the typo
